# Tuning-the-gains-of-PI-controller-using-Genetic-Algorithm-
Tuning the gains for a Proportional-Integral (PI) controller such that a feedback control system satisfies a set of requirements.
This problem involved optimization of multiple objectives (nine) that affects the stability, Transient performance, and Steady state performance of a plant, some of these objectives are conflicting in nature for example rise time and maximum overshoot hence the problem here is to find a multiple optimal trade-off solution. In this case deployment of an evolutionary algorithm made sense as their population-based approach can find multiple optimal solution in its final population. Genetic algorithm was chosen for this purpose as they generate high-quality solutions to optimization and search problems. Genetic algorithm relies on biologically inspired operators like mutation, crossover, and selection.
Genetic algorithm requires an initial population for implementation. To generate the initial population different types of sampling plans were used and appropriate plan was selected by evaluating them using evaluation matrices. In this case Sobol Sequence was selected because of its better space filling properties.
A mathematical formulation of problem was done to identify the decision parameters from the Transfer function. Mathematical formulation also helped in formulation of objective space. 
Different types of data exploratory methods were used to identify correlation between data and establish relation between decision parameters and objectives. 

The results of optimization process are analyzed and presented in a systematic manner and based on those results recommendations are made on tuning the PI controller for the plant. Also, key trade-offs were discussed, and alternative approaches were also suggested.
